Now you could configure a P.C. with two default gateways.
In other words set to the default gateway to switch one and switch two.
But that doesn't work very well in windows and other operating systems so I could go to my local area
connection go to properties change the properties for IP version 4 and try and configure multiple default
gateways but that's not going to work very well at all so it's better to set the pieces to use a single
default gateway which in this case is the H.S. IP virtual router and it's important to remember that
this is a virtual router not a physical rudder.
It doesn't actually exist in our topology but these pieces will be configured to talk to the relevant
virtual IP addresses in the same VLAN and one of the physical switches will fold the traffic on behalf
of the virtual Rada that's once again determined through an election the device where the highest priority
will become the forward.
For a villain so as an example we'll configure switch one with a property of 200 on VLAN 10 and switch
to with a property of 200 on VLAN 20 to ensure that such one becomes the active forward air will act
of Rata for VLAN 10 and switch to becomes the active of if we land 20 will then test that failover actually
takes place by doing a continuous ping between our species he has the console of switch one at the moment
show IP interface brief shows us the IP addresses configured on the relevant switched virtual interfaces
or SVM eyes on the switch we'll start with a VLAN 10 so that's the IP address configured on switch one
can a top confetti to go to global conflict mode and then I'll go on to interface VLAN 10 pressing question
mark we can see the option standby which allows us to configure H.S. IP so stand by question mark you
can create multiple groups that allows you to split the sharing of who is the active Rado within a villain.
I'm not gonna do that here I'll simply create a group of one.
Now you may want to make the group number the same as the villain number in this case I'm not going
to do that because I simply want to show you that the same group number can be used on multiple villains.
So stand by one specify an IP address and in this case it's the IP address of our virtual router which
is going to be ten dot one dot tend to 254 for VLAN ten the site yes IP rather once again doesn't exist
we simply configuring the virtual Radha in this case I'm going to configure a priority
rather a stand by priority of 200.
The default is 100 but I want to influence the property to ensure that switch one becomes the active
Radha for Vreeland 10 we can see already that the switch has become the active router for v lantern
group 1.
Before I do a show command stand by one pre-emption
now what pre-emption does is ensure that such one becomes the active Rada when it's up.
So switch one went down and switch to then became the active Rada while switch one is down when switch
one comes back again pre-emption will ensure that switch one becomes the active rudder again so it'll
basically force itself to become the active device we can view H.S. IP information by using the command
show standby as you can see here V Line 10 has Group 1 configured the local routers the active router
the virtual IP addresses configured as follows the active virtual Mac address is this.
So this is an HSR P Mac address.
Thus a virtual rudder on VLAN 10 is using this Mac address this portion of the Mac addresses the HSR
IP Well known Mac address.
So that is a reserved address for HS IP and this portion of the Mac address is a hexadecimal representation
of the group number.
Now we created group 1 so in hexadecimal it's shown as 0 1.
If we had created a group of group 10 it would have shown as zero a a being hexadecimal for 10 plus
a cent every three seconds the whole time is 10 seconds at the moment.
No hollows are being received from switch to so switch one has become the active forward.
If there were multiple routers in the topology they would send keeper lives to each other.
And that is how they know whether the other devices available.
As an example when switch to is configured it should be receiving polos from such one every three seconds.
If it doesn't for a period of 10 seconds it will become the active router so it will move from standby
to active and we'll test that in a moment.
Pre-emption is enabled the active roster is the local router the standby it currently is unknown.
We haven't configured switch to with a Jess IP so switch one doesn't know about any standby rota at
the moment.
The local property of the Roddy is 200 and this is the group name which is the default group name so
let's configure switch T and see what happens in the election we'll configure switch to 4 VLAN 10 and
then we'll configure both routers with H.S. IP on VLAN 20.